
    i. Is the GPS problem solver implemented as a class or as a function?
    GPS is a function.
    ii. The solver requires initial states, goal states and operators. Of what type are these objects?
    These objects are lists.
    iii. Is the mechanism recursive? If so, how does it implement its recursion?
    Yes, the gps function calls achieve_all(), which calls achieve(), which calls apply_operator(),
    which calls achieve_all(), implementing the recursion.


    i. What famous puzzle does this code model and what are the rules of that puzzle? Does the code faithfully implement the puzzle?
    This code models the monkey and banana problem and where a monkey has access to to a chair and a stick. There are bananas on the
    ceiling high enough that the monkey needs to be standing on the chair and waving the stick to knock the bananas down.
    No the code is not exactly the same problem. In this problem there is no stick, and a ball that the monkey needs to be not holding.

    ii.What components does each domain action specify?
    The components specify changes to a state. Such as dropping the ball changing the monkeys state
    from holding the ball to empty handed.

    iii.How does the GPS mechanism solve the problem? Be prepared to specify this in detail.
    You can use the logging feature to print a trace of the mechanism’s deliberations.

    The GPS mechanism solves the problem by trying to arrive at the desired goal state by fulfilling the preconditions.
    In this example, the desired state is not hungry, which means the action eat banana is required. However, a precondition
    is that first you need to get the bananas, and to get the bananas they need to be grasped, and for this a precondition is
    that the hands need to be empty... And the GPS continues to recursively go back through the actions needed until we arrive
    at an action where all the preconditions are  met, and then we can go back through the recursive loop completing the actions
    and allowing the monkey to eat the banana.

    Is this code artificially intelligent? If so, which definition (or definitions) of AI from the text does it satisfy?
    Would a monkey who/that solves the problem in the real world be displaying intelligence?

    I think this code would be classified as being artificially intelligent. I think the definition of AI it best matches
    with is thinking rationally, as it needs to pick a part every step along the way in order to arrive at the desired state.
    This is a more rational way of thinking then a human, as the steps of grabbing a banana,
    letting go of something else are intuitive and not something that someone necessarily has to think about doing.

    I think that if a monkey in the real world solves this problem it would be displaying intelligence, as it would have
    to use problem solving skills in order to use the chair to get the bananas.
