Exercise 3.1

1. Which algorithms work (in a timely manner) and which don’t? Explain your results in terms of the capabilities (and implementations) of the algorithms and nature of the problems.

            DFS        |       AC-3       |   Backtrack   |    Min-conflicts
solved      timely     |     Timely       |     Timely    |      Timely
easy        DNF        |     Timely       |     Slower    |      DNF
harder      DNF        |     Failed       |      DNF      |      Failed
hardest     DNF        |     Failed       |      DNF      |      Failed

*DNF = Did not Finish - took too long, so the program was stopped

The DFS behaves by reaching a finished node (a filled sudoku).
However, the algorithm has no behavior to try and pick numbers that will fit the constraints, so the algorithm
will eventually fail.

The AC-3 Failed quickly for the two harder puzzles because their were too many constraints and no way to backtrack. While, this
method was more effective for the easy problem where guessing was not needed to solve the problem.

The backtracking algorithm is able to solve the easy problem in a slow manner as it is able to go back and try to find solutions
that fit constraints. It is able to go back after hitting a point where the constraints are not satisfied. As a result, it will
be able to solve the puzzles it may just take a very long time.

The property of the min-conflicts algorithm is that it assigns values to all the location in the puzzle, and then try to solve
the puzzle by trying to minimize the number of conflicts using hill climbing to switch two of the values. This
algorithm then does not have backtracking which caused the failure to the two harder problems.


2. What effect does configuring the settings for backtracking have on the results? Try the following:

a. Set the variable/value ordering (i.e., the select_unassigned_variable parameter) to first-unassigned-variable (the default) or minimum-remaining-values (i.e., mrv).
    Assigning mrv to the select_unassigned_variable parameter makes the next value be chosen to be a move that will limit the amount
    of future legal move. The idea behind this is to quickly narrow the search field, and run into constraints, and not continue searching
    down fruitless streams. The problem was still not solved in a timely manner for any of the puzzle difficulties.

b. Set the inference (i.e., the inference parameter) to forward-checking (i.e., forward_checking).
    This on its own showed significant speed-up. This parameter allows for some forward checks, and stops
    the program from going down a path that will unevitably result in failure. Allowing for some level of "pruning".

Which, if any, of these settings should work best for sudoku? What combination of settings actually works the best?

For the sudoku problem both of these should be helpful in speeding up backtracking. As it will allow for quicker
elimination of non-viable paths. The greatest speed-up was seen when enabling both of these parameters. In addition,
using forward-checking on it's own also saw significant speed-up, but mrv did not.

Exercise 3.2

1. How large can n get for each of the algorithms? Why?

AC3 does not work for the queens problem because there is more than one possible solution, so the domains of each space
could have more then one value.
The backtracking problem works in a timely manner for an n of about 24. Backtracking is a type of traditional search, which
is why the addition of more queens causes it to significantly slow down.
The min-conflict algorithm works in a timely manner around n = 5000. It can handle more n's because it is a local search algorithm.

2. What backtracking settings work the best? Why?

The combination of both the mrv and forward checking works best. Although the mrv which picked an option that is more constrained in order to encounter failure quickly before going to deep into the tree was more effective then the forward checking.
Although, the forward checking also showed significant speed-up.
The settings of both of them together is most effective.

3. How many steps does Min-Conflicts require to do its work? Why?

Min-Conflicts varies based on how many initial conflicts there were set up. I saw in about 10 trials runs a variation from 8 to 177.
Although, the average seems to be closer to about 50. Not very steps are needed because their are multiple potential solutions to the
problem that can be found.

Exercise 3.3

1. Compare and contrast the specifications for CSP (i.e., csp.CSP) and traditional problems (i.e., search.Problem).
Be sure to consider the nature of states, domains, actions, results and goal tests.

Both of these problems will have an initial and goal state, as well a goal test. Both of these problems
are also able to move between states traditional search uses specified actions, while CSP moves between states
based on the constraints given.

In CSP, each problem has a set of variables, each of these variables has a domain and then there are constraints. CSP

A traditional search problem will a data structure that supports a goal test (state), actions (or neighboring nodes) and
potentially a heuristic.


2. Compare and contrast the nature of the heuristics deployed in traditional and constraint-based problem solving.

Heuristics are used in both of the problem solving methods to make the algorithm more efficient.
In traditional problem solving the heuristic is determined based on the state of the problem, and a better value would
mean that one is approaching the goal state. The heuristic would also be problem specific, as it would evaluate a specific
board or scenario.
In constraint-based problem solving a general purpose heuristic is used to eliminate large areas of search space where the
given variables or values violate the constraints.
